political leader of Hamas is hania has
been killed in Iran that's according to
statements from Hamas and Iran's
revolutionary guard Iran State TV is
also reporting he's been assassinated in
the capital according to the
Revolutionary guard hania and one of his
bodyguards were killed in a strike on
the building in tan where they were
staying he was in the capital meeting
President masud pesan the head of his
inauguration so these are the latest
pictures of that meeting in tran on
Tuesday he then attended pesan swear in
ceremony Iran says it's investigating
the killing of Ismael Hanah well Al
jazer juled AER takes a look back at
isma hania's life and the events which
shaped him into one of the most
prominent Palestinian political
figures this is what happened to the
alati refugee camp in Northern Gaza
during Israel's war in
2023 it's where ishir was born he was
the son of Palestinian parents who were
forc displaced from their home in what
is now ashalon after the state of Israel
was created in
1948 hania experienced firsthand the
challenges faced by millions of
Palestinians in their search for sted
but his future and influence would turn
out to be different than
most Americans take responsibility for
giving unlimited cover to this enemy to
commit to these massacres war crimes and
genocide in 1987 Han graduated from the
Islamic University of Gaza this same
year a Palestinian Mass Uprising began
against Israel's occupation also known
as the first
in in its efforts to liberate Palestine
the group Hamas was founded and among
its younger members isma hania his
Journey would soon become linked to the
rise of the Palestinian
group Israel imprisoned hanas several
times for taking part in protests
against the
occupation after serving his longest
three-year sentence he was deported to
Southern Lebanon along with hundreds of
Hamas members hania returned to Gaza in
1993 after the signing of the Oslo
Accords and became a close Confidant of
shik Ahmed Yasin the founder of Hamas
together they survived an Israeli
assassination attempt though Yasin was
killed months
later his rise to prominence came in
2006 when Hamas participated in the
Palestinian legislative elections the
group won a parliamentary majority
making hania prime minister of the
Palestinian
Authority but his appointment angered
the International Community who halted a
to the PA placing the Govern Gover body
under severe Financial strain Hamas is
classified by many Western Nations as a
terrorist
organization months of conflict between
factions led to president Mahmud Abbas
dismissing hania and dissolving his
government this would result in an
independent Hamas Le government in the
Gaza Strip headed by
Han this seizure should not break our
will and should not turn this conflict
into an internal Palestinian conflict
and that conflict should be against the
parties that imposed The Siege against
the Palestinian people in 2019 having
voluntarily stepped down hania left Gaza
and began living abroad for which he
faced substantial
scrutiny hania faced criticism for his
absence from the strip during Israel's
war on Gaza in
2023 he led hamas's diplomacy from a
number of locations as civilians were
massacred in the strip is hania's
influence on the history and politics of
Palestine will likely stay for years to
come and for many he will remain a
symbol of resistance in the face of
occupation and
adversity Hamas has released a statement
on its official website it says brother
leader and Mar Ismail hania the head of
the movement has been killed in a
treacherous Zionist raid on his
residence in Teran after participating
in the inauguration ceremony of the new
Iranian president and Iran's
revolutionary guard has also released a
statement saying early this morning the
residents of is Han and tan was struck
resulting in his and one of his
bodyguards martyrdom the cause is under
investigation and will be announced soon
so those two statements there coming
from uh Hamas and the Iranians let's get
more now with our correspondent Imran
Khan he joins us live uh on the set here
Imran you've been covering the war on
Gaza since it started um you've been
over in occup East Jerusalem for quite
some time you're back with us here now
um nothing yet from the Israelis but um
the finger's being pointed at them
absolutely but there will be nothing
from the Israelis officially now there's
precedent for this remember in uh April
when the iog Commander in Damascus was
hit by Israel there was a response from
Iran an unprecedented response drones
and missiles from Iranian territory fell
in Israeli territory we'd never seen
that before the difference is is uh that
this was very well telegraphed by the
Iranians they calculated this response
and they took place knowing that it
wouldn't escalate and that would draw a
line under that particular uh episode
however um the Israelis have said to the
Americans that we have told you that we
are going to do this so the Americans
apparently according to Israeli local
media were aware that this was going to
be happened so we've got to talk about
the calculation here hitting a Hamas
leader in tahan it doesn't matter how
they hit uh that particular building the
location matters far more than anything
else and now it's about seeing what
Israel says next now we like I said
won't get a official confirmation of
this but we are getting the cultural
Minister for example saying this is a
good thing and there'll be dribs and
drivs throughout the day low-level
cabinet ministers politicians saying
this is an amazing thing this is what we
wanted for this plays into netanyahu's
hands he is now able to say we are going
after Hamas politically and militarily
which is the goals of the war for him
but he was doing that in Gaza he wasn't
doing it in international territory this
is going to be a very concern uh a real
concern to Istanbul which has hosted
Hamas leaders in the past Kat y Doha
which has hosted Hamas leaders in past
including is hania who was here I think
uh he only left in uh July 2023 I think
so this is a very this is a real concern
for everyone but we've got to understand
we've got to try and figure out why
Israel thought that this right now was a
good idea was a good idea so so so so
that brings me nicely um uh Imran to
what's the broader message from Israel
here I mean we saw that attack yesterday
uh in Beirut claiming they' killed the
senior Hezbollah Commander Hezbollah
haven't said anything yet they've
neither confirmed nor denied it now we
have the politically of Hamas is hania
being killed on Iranian soil that's a
huge leap as you're talking about now
this kind of broader Regional
implication what is the broader message
from the Israelis here well the Israelis
are think is going to be very simple and
you'll hear it throughout the day we can
get these people where they live it
doesn't matter if they're in occupied
territory or if they're they're wherever
they are internationally and that's the
message the the the Israelis
unofficially will push let's see what
the official response is let's see what
prime minister Benjamin nahu says uh
later on in the day uh when he makes a
statement he might not talk about an
hania completely officially but he will
talk about the fact that this was this
is a good thing and I think the talking
points that the Israeli politicians are
getting from um the prime minister's
office are going to be pushing the fact
that this is a good thing for Israel but
without officially saying we've done
this
now it's about the escalation and where
where this goes next and the Iranian
response like I said in April there was
a strike very well telegraphed from
Iranian territory into Israeli territory
I was there for that I saw those Rockets
come in from uh Iranian territory the
Israelis didn't
respond directly to that but the
Iranians have now got to figure out how
to calculate a response and that's the
worry is how what sort of response now
could we see from the Iranians given
this much telegraphed response uh to
when their senior Commander was killed
in Syria but but but this is likely to
be a huge concern now as to how Iran
responds it is but there is another
precedent for this remember kasum suani
in January 2023 was assassinated in
Baghdad by the US uh under the Trump
Administration uh the Iranians didn't
respond to that uh particularly uh
directly to the Americans the Israelis
well may be saying we might be able to
get away with this because of kasum
salani but kasum salamani Muhammad resi
in Syria and now
hania Teran really does actually have to
do something vocal and direct now it
might be through Hamas it might be
through Hezbollah heah I've got a
different calculation right now like you
say their senior Commander was killed
yesterday so there is a lot of
calculations going on when this kind of
escalation happen miscalculation is the
bigger danger than response if one of
those groups miscalculates and yeah hits
something that they shouldn't or they
didn't want to or Israel miscalculates
and does something that it really didn't
want to do but has done then that's
where you know that's where real
problems will happen what do you think
this means now then imman for hopes of
any kind of ceasefire I mean this now
seems to be getting further and further
away given Israel's expansion of the
conflict well I mean let's just go back
to the ceasefire just a few months ago
US President Joe Biden was very clear
there's an Israeli approved ceasefire
deal on the table that never came to
fruition the Israelis were very
surprised by this prime minister
Benjamin n said what we gave you this
this three-phase plan the Biden
Administration announced saying that
this was going to end the war in Gaza it
was going to end the war in Gaza it
wasn't it wasn't just you know a
temporary ceasefire that's all gone away
every time we get close to a deal
whether it's in Cairo whether it's in
katar whether it's in the US the prime
minister of Israel says no actually
we're changing the terms of this this is
very frustrating for Hamas who have
agreed uh to a ceas fight and then the
Israelis say well actually no this is
all hamas's fault they aren't doing it
yeah and that's and that's interesting
because we uh Hamas was saying just
yesterday that the Israelis again have
changed the terms of the of the proposed
ceasefire yeah exactly and this keeps
going on and on the only way we are
going to avoid any kind of
miscalculation any kind of escalation in
uh the latest round of this war which is
you know in a different phase today than
it was yesterday let's be absolutely
honest about that we're in different
phase now is a comprehensive ceasefire
in Gaza that's the only way that
Hezbollah going to step down it's the
only way Hamas is going to step down uh
and it's the only way that the Americans
are going to be able to push for
reconstruction in Gaza and anything that
they might want to be able to do but
right now the Americans are backing
Israel and Israel isn't going for a ceas
fight as you say things are going to get
worse or they get better Imran Khan
there always good to get your Insight
analis Imran thank
you make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jaaz